about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: About
h1: A little background
date: 2010-04-12
---

## Why?

Two main reasons: I want to write more, and I want a place to put longer notes to myself. When I was finishing school - after many, many years - I remember how good I felt about my writing. At that point, I had just finished writing a dissertation, and I was in the habit of reading and writing all day, nearly every day. Flash forward, and I don't write nearly so often, and I think it shows. My writing feels flabby and repetitive and bland. I would like to fix that. Also, I like having a place where I can ramble, post up observations or simply drop notes to my future self ("Here's how I figured out how to use remote branches in Git"). Hence, this site.

## How?

[Vim][v] + [Jekyll][j] + [Git][g] + [Github][gh] + various Macs = this site. [Typekit][t] provides the fonts, and Twitter's [@Anywhere][@] provides the hovercards. (See the next paragraph if you're not sure what I mean by hovercard. Hover over my Twitter name there.) The source of the site is available at Github, if you're curious: [http://github.com/telemachus/ithaca](http://github.com/telemachus/ithaca). [Geekisp][gi] does the hosting.

[v]: http://www.vim.org/
[j]: http://wiki.github.com/mojombo/jekyll/
[g]: http://git-scm.com/
[gh]: http://github.com/
[t]: http://typekit.com/
[@]: http://dev.twitter.com/anywhere
[gi]: http://geekisp.com/

## Who?

My name is Peter Aronoff, and online I tend to go by Telemachus (hence the name of this site - partly). If you have something you _must_ say to me, you can reach me at telemachus /at/ arpinum /dot/ org. It shouldn't really matter, but if you're curious, I'm a teacher and sysadmin in New York City. In addition to the occasional post here, I'm online regularly or semi-regularly in some other places. I visit [Debian User Forums][df] and [LinuxQuestions][lq] regularly. I sometimes post questions or answers on [StackOverflow][so], and I sometimes post comments on [Hacker News][hn]. I keep some bookmarks on [Delicious][d], and you can find me @peteraronoff on Twitter. Wherever I hang out regularly, my name will be some variation of Telemachus, but of course not every online Telemachus is me. Consider yourself warned.

[df]: http://forums.debian.net/
[lq]: http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ 
[so]: http://stackoverflow.com/users/26702/telemachus
[hn]: http://news.ycombinator.com/
[d]: http://delicious.com/Telemachus_
[tw]: http://twitter.com/peteraronoff

## What's with the names?

There's a longer story here, but in a nutshell I'm a geek for ancient Greek and Roman literature. Arpinum (modern Arpino), about 60 miles south of Rome, is where [Marcus Tullius Cicero][c] was born. Ithaca is the home of Odysseus, the hero of the _Odyssey_, as well as his son (and my namesake) Telemachus. A few years ago when my wife and I were trying to pick a domain name to buy, we went through various Greco-Roman options, and arpinum.org was the first available choice. Ithaca made sense as a name for this space: the home of Telemachus.

[c]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cicero

Commit message:

Update about.md to point at Pinboard rather than Delicious for new bookmarks.

about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: About
h1: A little background
date: 2010-04-12
---

## Why?

Two main reasons: I want to write more, and I want a place to put longer notes to myself. When I was finishing school - after many, many years - I remember how good I felt about my writing. At that point, I had just finished writing a dissertation, and I was in the habit of reading and writing all day, nearly every day. Flash forward, and I don't write nearly so often, and I think it shows. My writing feels flabby and repetitive and bland. I would like to fix that. Also, I like having a place where I can ramble, post up observations or simply drop notes to my future self ("Here's how I figured out how to use remote branches in Git"). Hence, this site.

## How?

[Vim][v] + [Jekyll][j] + [Git][g] + [Github][gh] + various Macs = this site. [Typekit][t] provides the fonts, and Twitter's [@Anywhere][@] provides the hovercards. (See the next paragraph if you're not sure what I mean by hovercard. Hover over my Twitter name there.) The source of the site is available at Github, if you're curious: [http://github.com/telemachus/ithaca](http://github.com/telemachus/ithaca). [Geekisp][gi] does the hosting.

[v]: http://www.vim.org/
[j]: http://wiki.github.com/mojombo/jekyll/
[g]: http://git-scm.com/
[gh]: http://github.com/
[t]: http://typekit.com/
[@]: http://dev.twitter.com/anywhere
[gi]: http://geekisp.com/

## Who?

My name is Peter Aronoff, and online I tend to go by Telemachus (hence the name of this site - partly). If you have something you _must_ say to me, you can reach me at telemachus /at/ arpinum /dot/ org. It shouldn't really matter, but if you're curious, I'm a teacher and sysadmin in New York City. In addition to the occasional post here, I'm online regularly or semi-regularly in some other places. I visit [Debian User Forums][df] and [LinuxQuestions][lq] regularly. I sometimes post questions or answers on [StackOverflow][so], and I sometimes post comments on [Hacker News][hn]. I keep some bookmarks on <del>[Delicious][d]</del>, and you can find me @peteraronoff on Twitter. (Edit, 2010-04-29, I've switched to [Pinboard][p] for bookmarks. I recommend it very highly.) Wherever I hang out regularly, my name will be some variation of Telemachus, but of course not every online Telemachus is me. Consider yourself warned.

[df]: http://forums.debian.net/
[lq]: http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ 
[so]: http://stackoverflow.com/users/26702/telemachus
[hn]: http://news.ycombinator.com/
[d]: http://delicious.com/Telemachus_
[tw]: http://twitter.com/peteraronoff
[p]: http://pinboard.in/u:telemachus

## What's with the names?

There's a longer story here, but in a nutshell I'm a geek for ancient Greek and Roman literature. Arpinum (modern Arpino), about 60 miles south of Rome, is where [Marcus Tullius Cicero][c] was born. Ithaca is the home of Odysseus, the hero of the _Odyssey_, as well as his son (and my namesake) Telemachus. A few years ago when my wife and I were trying to pick a domain name to buy, we went through various Greco-Roman options, and arpinum.org was the first available choice. Ithaca made sense as a name for this space: the home of Telemachus.

[c]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cicero
